Hey friends. I want to
introduce a new sponsor to
you. H M a VPN.
It's a VPN you can
count on. As you know,
I do a lot of
travel and I tend to
connect to a lot of
untrusted wireless networks. And I
probably shouldn't, but I can
use HMA as the world's
largest VPN service offers. The
most server locations worldwide covers
190 countries. There's always a
server nearby it. Doesn't log
your IP address and allows
me to connect five devices
simultaneously works on basically all
platforms, Android, iOS, Mac, Linux,
windows routers, wherever it's actually
been completely redesigned recently to
make it even simpler and
more fun to use. And
there's even a smart kill
switch. That'll turn the VPN
automatically on when you launch
sensitive apps, here's your call
to action. My friends try
HMA VPN risk-free with a
30 day money back guarantee.
This deal is for Hanselman
its listeners. That's HMA, vpn.com/offer
hyphen Hansel minutes. That's HMA
vpn.com/offer-hansel minutes. Hey friends, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
Of a sort. This is
a little different. This is
the first or second show
of 2020. And I thought
for the first time in
700 episodes, I would actually
have myself on the show.
Now I realize that's a
super egotistical thing to do
considering that the show is
named after me. But I
recently did a kind of
a, a little little conference,
little internal conversation with a
group of folks that are
called the live coders. It's
part of Jeffrey Fritz's team
on Twitch. You can go
to twitch.tv/team/live coders. It's a
team of over a hundred
folks that Twitch live, they
code and develop live in
the open. And they were
kind enough to invite me
into their discord, their audio
chat channel. It's like IRC,
but for people that talk
and they ask me questions
about building community and how
I manage my life and
how I do my blogging
and my podcast. And the
result was about 50 minutes
of audio and about five
minutes of content. And someone
had the idea that maybe
we should make this a
podcast. So be warned, this
may suck, but at the
same time, it might be
useful. And I hope you
check it out. It is
a longer show. It's about
50 minutes long. So bear
with us, but I hope
that you enjoy this unusual
episode of Hansel minutes. So
you've had a lot of
experience growing and managing communities.
A lot of the folks
that are here when we
were in that other voice
channel, before we got started,
the folks were kind of
impressed with how many folks
you have following you on
Twitter. I mean, that's a
huge number And why people
are impressed with that, right?
It's about longevity. It's about
being mediocre for decades. If
people, the difference, the only
difference between me and and
other people is that I
haven't stopped. And I've talked
about this. I gave a
talk in, where was I
last week? Estonia, one of
the Balkans, I can't remember.
And I was talking about
community. Everyone's like, Oh, you
know, I was doing, it's
really, it's awful. Now that
you're old because it's like,
Oh, I was doing your
book, reading your blog when
I was in high school.
And I'm like, Oh God,
but the blog has been
going since for 17 years,
the podcast has been going
for 14 years. What people
don't do when they set
up these, these communities, these
things is make them sustainable
because they create an unreasonable
expectation, right? You look at
every YouTube or every Twitter
has burned out. And, but
I blog twice a week
consistently for 20 years. And
I podcast every Thursday for
the last 15 years, 14
years. And the reason that
that works is that I'm
not doing it five days
a week. You know what
I mean? So I appreciate
all the work that you
all are doing, but I've
told you this personally, Jeff
privately, please don't burn out,
you know, set up systems
by which your community can
be self sustaining. And that
it does not require you
to show up every single
day or you will burn
out. So the only difference
between me and everybody else
is that I had never
stopped. And that really speaks
to consistency. And I joke
about mediocrity. Some of my
things are mediocre. Some of
them are not, but I,
I am patting myself on
the back. Finally. I'm like,
you know, old enough and
good enough at what I'm
doing to be able to
like have a little bit
less imposter syndrome and a
little bit more confidence in
what I'm doing. And that
is that I have had
a consistent quality plus quality
for so many years. And
that's, that's the thing, right?
Like, it will be interesting
to see what Twitch looks
like in five years and
in 10 years. And how
many of you continue to
do it and not give
up. So it makes sense.
It totally does. And actually,
you're, you're kind of feeding
right into Robert table's question
here. I'm going to unmute
him so that he can,
is that the whole body
tails That is th this
is little Bobby tables. Let
me unmute him. So we
can ask his question for
you. I had a question
when you built a community,
as you've done over the
years, you eventually hit kind
of growing pains of any
company. So imagine you have
a small group, like a
Dungeons and dragons group, or
you have a small group
in your company that is
hyper focused on a thing
like usability or accessibility or
something. You know, something like
that. And you, when they
get very, very large, you
hit the growing pains of
any company. Imagine you have
a hundred people, a hundred
people in your kind of
community, all over the world
with everyone, having their different
Ideas and things like that.
These are the same pain
points that companies had with
scalability. Right. So how do
you view kind of delegating
responsibilities for aspects of kind
of like a group or
a community or managing expectations
when community mentorship is not
even part of your role,
meaning you're kind of doing
this thing, like not part
of your job. Okay. So
there's a couple of things
to parse there. First, there's
the, what's your job and
what's not your job. That
doesn't really matter. I mean,
it's just that people usually
break it up into what
they are paid for and
how much time they have
to spend on something. But
those things are really come
down to just organizational willpower.
I mean, I'm not paid
to blog. I'm not paid
to podcast. I work for
the Microsoft, but I don't
do either of those things
for work. But I do
find time for those things
that are important. Right? And
so that's, that's, that's thing.
Number one is back to
the community aspect of things.
You talked about how you
create this community, and then
they get to be a
certain size. One of the
things that I think that
people don't do, whether it's
a community of, to like
a relationship or a community
of, of a hundred or
more is express what the
actual goals are. So I'll
use a marriage as an
example, a longterm relationship, and
then I'll scale it up
to a community where my
wife and I got married,
you know, everyone gets, gets
married or gets it's another
partnership. And then they, they
write their vows and it's
surprising how few people actually
write their mission statement. Like
I've seen more sophisticated business
plans from people who are
opening a food cart. Then
I have people getting married,
my wife and I wrote
our business plan, our, our,
our goal, our like, what
is the point of this
community? We are building this
culture of too, that we
have made, and we are
doing it with an intentionality
to it. That makes sense.
And when you put together
a community, whether it be
50 live coders or a
blog or whatever, you set
a tone, it's a congregation
to use a religious reference.
And if when my podcast
is a community, my blog
is community. My Twitter account
is a community. And you
have to make sure that
80 to 90% of the
people in that community, or
if it's a community of
two, 100% of the people
are 100% behind the goals.
Right. And when it gets
into the 50 50, as
we see, like, if we
look at like government right
now, all over the world,
it seems to be also
weighting between 51% and 49%
where it's like, wait a
second. We're not even agreeing
on like the 10 commandments
thou shalt not kill bands.
You know, like those kinds
of conversations indicate that we
can't even agree on the
earth is flat or not.
Right? So when you put
together the live coders, what,
what you all need to
do as a team is
decide, what's the tone? What
is the goal? What is
the way we're going to
interact with people so that
if a troll shows up
or a meanie shows up
or whatever, they are overwhelmed
with the positivity of the
group and that there's not
5%, 10%, 30% of the
people that are like, well,
you know, they're just, well,
actually, you know, it's good
to ask hard questions or
whatever. You have to hit
them hard with, Nope, this
is a positive space block
and move on. Right. That's
how you scale. It starts
with two people agreeing on
what the hell we're doing,
and then scaling up and
making sure that the slider
bar between the one side
of the, you know, one
side of your perspective of
how you want your community
to behave and act, you
know, is it a community
that, that is, are a
bunch of edge Lords that
are like pushing the edge
of, of what is appropriate?
Or are they a bunch
of people who are like
excessively kind? You know what
I'm saying? Like, I live,
I'm not religious, but I
happened to live coincidentally in
a community that is 95%
Mormon. And while I'm not
a Mormon, darn, there's some
nice people. Like you got
to give him credit for
agreeing on niceness as a
thing. They are excessively killing
with kindness. I'm like literally
a hundred feet right now
from a stake center, a
more, it's like a Mormon
church. And they're just like
so nice. And it's like,
well, you know, we may
not agree on all the
Mormon stuff, but gosh, darn
it. We can sure. Agree
on kindness. Yeah. So that
agreement, the, the intentionality what's
called deliberate practice go on
Google for deliberate practice is
so fundamental to community, but,
but no one ever actually
says it. And then that's
why communities sometimes succeed or
they don't. That's why I
like Reddit is such a
challenge right now is that
no one actually founded Reddit
with the agreement that we
would all be nice. And
now after the fact they're
trying to re do, what's
called , you're trying to
read Khan. Nice. You can't.
Retcon nice. So while you
are a small team, figure
out what you all believe
in, you know, like this,
I believe where's the 10
commandments or the, the, the
bill of rights of this
little group here. Does that
make sense? It does. That
completely answers my question. And
I'm very impressed with your
attitude. I I'm taking it
back. I have to sit
for it. Well, my PayPal,
Someone, I don't even know.
You don't know me. You
should get to know me.
Just Google Scott. It's the
fifth entry on Google. Yeah,
it's right after Scott toilet,
paper tissue. There you go.
Thank you very much. I
appreciate that. I just wanted
to answer the right question
and I sound like I
did our case, you know,
a really great, a really
great website, that really great
community that you're probably all
familiar with is called code
newbies. Yes. Code nui.org. You
know, step one, don't be
a Dick. That was what
they did and they are
excessive. And the idea is
that when 99% of the
people are that nice, then
you end up with the
community self policing so that
someone does not necessarily have
to show up in order
to be nice. Yeah. So
Ron cleanse that community. Thank
you. And I apologize for
calling you a little Bobby,
The tables, but let me
do that. That'll make it
required. So we had the
second question that, that came
through rock zombie too, as,
as a question. Yeah. I,
I'm interested in starting a
blog. I've been streaming kind
of inconsistently, which I realize
now is it's probably a
big factor too, you know,
the, the lack of community
growth. But yeah, I was
kind of interested in how
you started your blog. Like
how much of your growth
was attributed to your blog.
And did you already have
a community like a Twitter
following maybe? Or did you
already have some kind of
audience before you started it?
And yeah, I just kinda
want to know how, how,
how crucial of a piece
your, your blog is to
your audience and your communities
that you built. Okay. So
there's a couple of things
worth calling out there. First,
you use the word growth.
I want to dig into
that. Then you said Twitter,
and then you said following,
and then the blog. So
first consistency is King period
full stop. I tell this
to my kids and I
don't mean to refer to
you all as kids, but
I'm old. So I'm going
to do that. I tell
my kids step one, show
up. Absolutely. Absolutely. Show up.
Consistency is the thing. How
often have you visited someone
else's blog? And the very
last blog post is a
rededication of themselves to blogging.
I haven't been blogging lately
when I'm back. And it's
like four years ago. Right?
It's like the last thing
that they ever wrote was
like, I'm back and I'm
ready to blog that's because
people set up these failure
systems, they set up failure
systems for themselves. And if
you can blog once a
month or once a week,
or what a once is
something it's gotta be something
that you can't ever stop.
It's gotta be far enough
away that you miss it
when it doesn't happen. It
can't be too far away.
That coming back as a
chore, right. It's gotta be
well spaced out in everyone's.
Spacing is different for some
people blogging every day is
like a diary for some
people it's like, Oh God,
it's Friday. I got a
blog. Yeah, Scott, it was,
it was a discussion with
you around this type of
topic that really got me
focused on streaming consistently. Yup.
Yup. You gotta be consistent,
but you also need to
make sure that you have
to check with yourself. You
have to have an internal
check-in where you say, does
this feed my spirit? Like,
is this the thing that
makes me happy? If you
feel you need a blog
to grow, then that's the
attitude. And the thing is,
there's always going to be
somewhere. You can throw your
time and there's always going
to be somewhere. You can
throw your keystrokes, blogs, podcasts,
wikis, stack overflow, internal QA
systems. Like all these places
are that you can do.
You can put your keystrokes,
but as rambling geek just
said, do it because you
enjoy it. Not because you
feel that it's a requirement
now that said, you still
need to work out, right?
Exercise is required. Otherwise you'll,
you know, well, it's not
really required. I mean, you'll
die earlier if you don't,
but you do it because
it's the right thing to
do exercising every day, twice
a day might burn you
out. Right? But it's all
comes down to the serotonin
balance. But here are also
very good things from my
rhyme. You hear enjoyment, money
or habit. If you go
out and Google for Hanselman
productivity tips. One of the
things that I talk about
in my complete list of
productivity tips is if something
is not set up to
let me start and find
the, here we go, Christopher
Hawkings said this quote, I'm
going to paste this quote
right here. Now I'm going
to change that quote because
the part where he says
make money is BS. And
I'm going to just put
underscore. If it's not helping
me to blank, it's not
helping me to improve my
life in some way. It
is mental clutter and it's
out. So take all the
things that you do in
your life. Everything short them
signal versus noise value versus
no value where value is
up to you. The reason
that I changed the part
where he said make money
and change it into underscores
was to make the observation
that what is your goal
is your goal. Fix your
career is your goal. To
spend more time with your
family is your goal to
get a six pack, whatever
every single thing in your
life needs to be measured
against that goal. You see?
So if, if a goal
is, you know, have a
great career and make more
money, but what's the real
goal under that goal. Does
that make sense for me?
I started the blog, not
for you. I've been blogging
all these years and I
did it for myself. I
did it so I can
Google myself later. I gave
a talk yesterday@theportlandarea.net users group.
And I probably Googled for
myself by just adding my
last name. Plus the thing
I was searching for seven
times maybe nine, which means
that every single time, something
interesting happened rather than forgetting
about it, rather than emailing
someone. I wrote a blog
post about it, do that
once a week for a
year that's 50 blog posts
do that once a week
for 10 years, that's 500
blog posts. So it's not
hard like consistency. It's just
like compounded interest, right? I've
got thousands of blog posts,
but you've got to do
it once a week, but
once a month that won't
make a lot of blocks.
You, you can't help, but
help your career if you
blog once a week and
all of the excuses about
reasons not to blog. Well,
I don't have anything to
say. There's so many servers
already been said, ignore the
haters. Just it's a diary.
Do it online, do it
consistently. It will make life
better. Thank you. That was
like super, super informative. And
I guess just a small
follow up question then is
since my issue with bogging
has, well, I haven't even
started it, but I guess
the reason why is I
have had a hard time
trying to find like a
good workflow. So maybe if
you could share a bit
of insight into your workflow
as to what your blogging
process looks like. So first
thing I have a blog
post, I'm going to go
and bring it up. It's
called a, your words are
wasted. Words are wasted while
you're grabbing that. I'm also
going to unmute Michael jolly
because that feeds kind of
into his question, which I
have next year. So Roxanne,
and I'm going to put
you on mute and I'm
going to unmute Michael jolly
so he can continue a
little bit of that conversation.
So my workflow is I
use a tool called windows
live writer that is just
basically electric paper. You know,
I mean, it's just like
Mark down. It's just a
nice little HTML editor that
I can hit post on
the point is you don't
want to have anything in
the blogging process. Be tedious.
You just wanna be able
to open a thing up
and start slapping the keyboard.
So like, I'll give you
an example of like a
free blog post that I
did for myself. Here you
go. Thursday, last week, a
young lady on Twitter texted
me and said, Hey, I'm
finishing my PhD. And I'm
super nervous about like becoming
an adult. Do you have
any advice? And I just
started slapping on the keyboard
and I gave her a
list of advice and she
tweeted it for you actually
tweeted screenshots of our DM.
And it ended up going
kind of like low key
viral. And then I'm like,
wow, I just slapped the
keyboard, like 2000 keystrokes there.
I'm going to turn that
into a blog post. So
then I copy pasted the
words in your blog post.
You see what I'm saying?
Like don't waste your keystrokes.
Thanks to Datadog for sponsoring
this episode of Hansel minutes
in their latest report on
container trends, Datadog analyzed 1.5
billion containers and found that
in orchestrated environments, container lifespans
averaged about one day to
easily monitor this dynamic infrastructure
consider using Datadog's container specific
features. The container map provides
a birds eye view of
your container fleet and the
live container view searches groups
and filters your containers with
any criteria like tags, pods,
or workspaces. Try Datadog in
your own environment with a
free 14 day trial and
you'll receive a complimentary t-shirt
visit Datadog hq.com/hansel minutes, dash
podcast to get started. That's
Datadog hq.com/hansel minutes, dash podcast
to get started or check
out the link in the
show notes. So then Michael
jollies follow up question. Go
ahead. You can unmute and
go after that. Yeah. Thanks
Scott, for hanging out with
us today, all the content
you're putting together, whether it
be blog posts, the podcasts
to do a tweets, all
that kind of it's a
lot of content to put
out there, right? So I'm
kind of curious, how do
you manage all that? Like
if you're putting out a
blog post every, you know,
say two weeks ups, twice
a week, podcasts coming out
regularly, do you like cue
that up? And you say,
you know, this weekend I'm
going to write up four
or five blog posts and
just had them queue for
the month or do you
attack that? That's a good
question. That's a good question.
So I use the, to
do app, the Microsoft to
do app. It used to
be called Wunderlist and the
trick with, with anything like
this is, remember that it's
kind of like a buffer
and buffers that are like
supposed to be like a
bucket or like a, a
backlog for lack of a
better word, right? If a
buffer overflows, right? The backlog
became too big. If I
gave you four ideas of
things that you could write
a blog post about, you'd
be like, Oh cool, I've
got a nice little backlog,
like four things I can
write about. But if I
gave you a backlog of
a hundred things, you'd be
like, ah, I'm never going
to catch up. I'll never
be able to write those
blog posts. So I have
in my to do app
a, a list called blog
post and there's 18 potential
blog posts. Now these are
18 potential things I could
write about. And that's a
number that's big in that
I'll never run out of
stuff to blog about, but
it's not overwhelming where it's
like, ah, the pressure of
the psychic weight of this
is too much. So I
have a, a less, a,
a backlog of existing written
posts and more a backlog
of ideas that are just
so good that they'll just
write themselves. Does that make
sense? So like, I, like
it says blog, colon, and
then I've got the little
subject I want to write.
It's like, Oh, I could
write that in an hour.
So it's just enough information
that would allow me to
write a blog post very
quickly. And then I have
a S a Q that
is of a good size
that is encouraging, but not
a crushingly large queue. Yeah.
So I'm doing like, literally,
like the same thing I'm
using Microsoft to do. I've
got like a redo list
of, of blog posts, but
then you've also got like
your, your podcasts and even
tweaks. Like one of the
things I've gotten is like,
I've got named like social
media calendar where like, it's,
Hey, I need to put
this out. You know what,
the blog post, I need
to go find something someone
else has done on dev
two or something like that.
And just, you know, kind
of elevate them, tweet them
out, try to give them
some exposure. Sure. It sounds
like you're putting a lot
more thought into Twitter than
I am. So are you
like, like with your podcasts
or are you ever like
trying to combine some of
that and saying, you know,
Hey, I want to, I
want to do a blog
post on like your posts
you do with the Kubernetes
cluster. Do you ever think,
you know what, that's such
a great project. I'm going
to do a blog post
about that and bring somebody
on and do a blog,
a podcast about that as
well, right? Yeah. So if
there's a thing that has
me excited, like for example,
a couple of weeks ago,
I was excited about a
thing called Pico eight a
to game writing system. So
it's like, okay. The, and
I are doing Pico eight
on the weekends playing around.
Therefore I'll do a couple
of blog posts on Pico
eight. Therefore I'll reach out
to the person who invented
Pico eight and have them
on my show. And then
I found another second person
that did stuff on PicoWay.
So over the course of
nothing other than I was
interested in a topic, I
got two blog posts to
podcasts and a project with
the kids out of it.
This was something I learned
early on Scott from Yeah.
Friend of both of ours.
Chris sells when I worked
for him, the idea of
don't waste content. If you're
going to write some content,
if you're going to be,
do a podcast or something,
figure out a way that
you can reuse it at
least two or three times,
maybe, maybe a blog post
turns into a talk that
you give at a conference.
Yeah. The myth, the myth
that I'm somehow productive is
a perception management issue. That
is only me not wasting
content. So I've done whole
talks on don't waste your
keystrokes and the idea being
that, like, let's say that
after this call, one of
you lovely people who I
do not know, emails me
a great question. I don't
know you you're lovely people,
but I'm not going to
give you 5,000 of my
keystrokes. Right. I'm like, cause
you're just going to reply
and be like, thanks. And
like, okay, well I just
gave that person all these
keystrokes. And then what was
the point? Instead, I will
put those keystrokes in a
blog post and do a
YouTube video and do a
Twitch stream on it or
whatever. I, you know, do
a podcast. So what you've
done by emailing me an
unsolicited question is in fact,
give me a gift, which
is wow. What a cool
question. I never thought about
that. A, any question from
the audience is a gift.
And once they've given you
that gift, then you can
put it in, in a
number of places, wherein is
some number one, plus blog,
post podcast, which stream blah,
blah, blah, YouTube on and
on, on and on. Now,
before it never emailed them
back, we send them a
link to the thing that
you did. Absolutely. And, and
that kind of feeds into
a little bit of the
next question I have Kim
Phillpotts has a question. I'm
going to come to that
in a second, but I
wanted to kind of feed
in and conclude your thought
there about someone asking a
question as a gift for,
for us as streamers, when
we get those questions in
chat that, you know, somebody
who's asking the question, Oh,
how do I do this
in C-sharp or, Hey, there's
a Java script library here.
I'm having a problem with
those absolutely are gifts for
us as streamers to be
able to generate a clip,
to be able to, to
think here's, here's a topic
for my next stream that
we can go after, right?
Oh yeah. Every, every time
that happens, that's an example
of what you can do
that. But the flip side
of that, and this is
the question that I have
for you. And I really,
I think a couple of
folks had had similar concepts
around this that they wanted
to hear your opinion on
is how do you handle
the heaters who come in
with that, that trolley question,
send you a tweet. That's
mean, how do you, what
do you do with it?
That's a tough one because
there's a couple of things
here. Like it's easy. I'll
tell you what I do.
And I'll tell you that
it is, you know, that
it's true, but it always
stings. Right? And, and there
are varying levels of privilege
that you can come at
this with where I've got,
you know, I'm, I'm old
and I'm doing okay. So
there's very little that you
can do to hurt my
feelings. You know what I
mean? Well, if I was,
you know, a 24 year
old woman who didn't speak
English, well, you know, like
add on to all the
different things that would make
me not privilege would it
would become plus one plus
two plus three more difficult
to just shake it off.
Right. But if the, the,
the, the philosophical answer to
that question is why would
I let someone who doesn't
love me ruin my day?
Why would I allow them
to do that? There are
8 billion people in the world,
and you do not need
to be friends with them.
All right, absolutely. So why
would I allow them to
read, why would I allow
an internet stranger to reach
out from nowhere? It's almost
like, you know, you only
want people to text you
if they know you, but
we allow anyone in the
world to tweet us, someone
I tweeted about the Peloton
thing recently, and the Peloton
commercial, a stupid commercial that
happened. I had some stupid
tweet about it and it's
gone viral. And it's like
5,000 people. And people are
telling me that, like, they're
just calling me horrible names.
And they're saying, my family
sucks and I must be
a week. This and that.
And all these dirty words,
I can't even say. And
I'm thinking to myself, y'all
are using social media to
reach out into the world
and crap on me because
of a $2,500 stationary bicycle.
Like, why do you feel
so strongly about it? So
I just muted the entire
thread. Does that make sense?
Absolutely. So didn't block them
because blocking is aggressive, but
I do mute very consistently.
It's something that we as
streamers need to be able
to handle in our chat
rooms, because it right. There
are times when, when the
stream will turn, will turn
negative. You'll have trolls that
pop up and try and
take over. Yep. Well, so
then that gets back to
the original conversation about how
positive can you make your
room? One of the people
that I always loved was
a no op cat, right?
Like such positivity in her
stream that when the negative
people showed up, they would
drown out the others. So
you've got to stack the
deck and let them go
after the bad people Here
today. But she's, she's a
member of this discord as
well. Yeah. So, you know
what I'm saying? Like, she,
she, her kindness was infectious.
Therefore it would prevent, you
know, she, she had advocates
working on her behalf. Absolutely.
So that Kind of To
Kim's question about hosting them,
right. Hosting is a little
bit more than just managing
what's going on. Let me
unmute Kim. So he can
ask his question. So Scott,
you, you create a lot
of really awesome content where
you're interviewing people and including
people like all your channel
nine stuff and bringing others
into our communities and channels,
it seems like a very
natural way to keep growing
and producing content. So my
question really is, do you
have any tips or resources
for improving interviewing techniques? Like,
is there a, is there
a school for that or
is it just practice and
experience? I believe that interviewing
techniques are similar to improv.
There's a thing called comedy
sports with a Zed at
the end. There's usually one
anywhere near you. It's literally
learning how to do improv.
And one of the biggest
things about improv is what's
called yes. And where you
don't say no to somebody,
you and stay say yes
and no is a hard,
a hard stop. And then
you have to turn around
and redirect. So you've literally
slammed someone up against a
topic and then rotated them
and then shoved them in
another direction that requires energy.
And it takes energy out
of the conversation. If someone
is doing improv and you're
trying to make something up
and you're like, okay, you
know, I've got a Ninja
sword and you're a Toronto
source. And someone's like, no,
I'm not. I'm like, well,
wow, okay. You just like
crapped on the whole premise.
They're like, what? Okay. If
I'm not trying to start
with what are, you know,
as opposed to yes. And,
and then redirect, you know
what I mean? It's the
same thing. Like you say
no to a little kid
and it just messes, messes
them up and then you
have to go and redirect.
Yes. And here we go,
as chef Brent says, building
on what they said, instead
of shutting it down. Even
if you mean, no, you
can say yes and, and
then redirect the conversation and
they won't even feel it.
Yes. And is the Bruce Lee
maneuver extend what? They said?
It, you may not be
a perfect 100%. Yes. But
it's not a slap in
the face. No, that is
a thing. Additionally, there's a
show called fresh air with
Terry Gross. That's an American show
on national public radio. She
is well considered one of
the top interviewers of all
time and watching, like listening
to her, not for the
content, but rather for the
style at which she moved,
the conversation forward is worth
it. I would listen to
her earlier stuff. Now that
she's been doing this for
40 years, she's getting a
little bit lazy, but the
way that she did it
in the mid nineties, the
classic Cary gross R M
interview styles are a way
of listening to an interview.
As, as if you are
watching a black belt and
studying their style, you can
get caught up in the
content, but you need to
basically turn your, turn your
content brain off and say,
Oh, look how she did
that. Look how she redirected
that look how she took
that potentially awkward moment and
turned it around and turn
it into something special VR.
Again, this gets back to
the original part of the
conversation, deliberate practice. Like people
seem to think that you
can just turn on the
mic and start interviewing and
it's going to go, well,
you cannot, you have to
think about it. And it's
like, well, I'm a smart
person. Why shouldn't I be
able to hold a conversation
for 30 minutes and not
sound like an idiot? Well,
have you practiced it? Like,
have you, have you thought
about it as a deliberate
focused practice? Have you analyzed,
have you listened to yourself
and said, Oh shoot, I
didn't answer that. Right. I
should have, I should have
taken the conversation in this
way. We, when, so when
we look back in time
and we say, Oh God,
I only said that it
would have gone in another
way. We are conditioned to
consciously not criticize ourselves in
that way. And I would
propose that you take a
unflinching. I turned around, look
back, listen to watch yourself
on video and say, wow,
I did this wrong. I
shouldn't have done it that
way. And I will try
it differently. The next way
people think that just being
human and having a conversation
is natural. Being charming is
in fact, a real, a
real art. It is a
thing that you can practice
and become better at just
like dancing. Does that make
sense? It makes total sense.
What do you think Kim
does it though? Does it
deference? Great advice. Thanks. Oh,
thank you for the question.
It was a gift. See
how I did that, yo.
Oh my gosh. Now where's
Callow. When you brought up
imposter syndrome earlier, that was
something new that he, that
he hadn't heard before. Kelo,
I'm going to unmute you
so you can, you can
follow up on the topic
of imposter syndrome with Scott
here. One of the things
I want to remind you
of, please, I'm pretty sure
this is the thing. Yes,
this is pretty good, but
there's a, there's a YouTube
channel called charisma on command.
Most of these are very
kind of broke fish where
they're like teaching men, how
to not, you know, how
to talk to women or
whatever. This is actually a
useful focused analysis of how
to behave a certain way.
And now don't let the
weirdo like icons turn you
off, but it's like, why
do we find Jimmy Fallon
fake? And why do we
find canner Reeves to be
charming? Like, he'll literally look
at an interview and he'll
say like, look at the
one with Rupert, what's his
name? There? There's there's specific
techniques and how he moves
his body, how he uses
his eyes, that change how
people respond to him. And
it is, it is really
special and worth watching. Oh,
very cool. I'll have to
check that out. Yeah. Sincerely.
Okay. People are agreeing. So
that makes me feel good.
Yeah. Let me unmute Callow
so we can follow up
on the discussion about imposter
syndrome earlier. There you go.
Callow, you're open. Yeah. Just
the terminology processing of it
struck me because I didn't
feel, you know, yeah. You
don't know enough to answer
this question properly or, you
know, but other people seem
to know, you know, enough
to answer the question and
that happens throughout life, not
just programming and things like
that. Without me having to
read all the content that
you posted, I will. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, geez. No, I
see. You still struggle with
it from all the comments
you make, from what we,
what we say at the
end of the day, how
do you make yourself feel
like, you know what you
know? So if we go
back to the idea of
deliberate practice, let's just be
real. Cause we have like
a small group here. And
even though we're recording, which
makes me nervous, I can
keep it 100 with just
like 50 of my new
close friends here. We can
understand that most people live
their lives, accepting the defaults.
Most people just double click
on the installer. They go
next, next, next finish. And
that's it. But if you
were deliberate about installing some
shit, you will hit custom
and you will read the
ULA and you will think
about it. We don't live
our lives deliberately every day.
You don't wake up on
every random Tuesday and like,
think about what am I
going to do today to
make my day better? What
am I going? How can
I be my best self?
Some people have the energy,
some people don't. But what
you can do is you
can acknowledge and you can
say, you know, I sleep
walked through last week or
I got 20 years experience.
But for three of those
years, I was just coasting
being like honest with yourself
and then saying, I'm going
to wake up tomorrow. And
this is what I'm gonna
do to hold it down.
And I'm going to handle
these, these three things tomorrow
to make life better. Simply
the, the observation of your
own behaviors, changes things. You
know how they always say,
if you observe it, you
modify it. Like you can't
look at something without changing
it by simply looking you
can't by simply being mindful.
Thank you. Right? I move
you. You cannot stop, but
improving. You cannot stop. If
you think about like, I'm
doing TaeKwonDo right now. And
I got to go to
TaeKwonDo in two hours and
I got to do some
tests for my next belt
and mindfulness, where are my
feet right now? How is
my body moving? Why does
my shoulder hurt? All of
those things involve looking at
yourself unapologetically now to the
point of imposter syndrome, I
called Jeff what three times
this week kind of like,
Oh, I don't really know
about this, this live coders
thing. What can I say
to them? I don't really
think I have anything valuable
to say. And he's like,
no, it'll be fine. I'll
give you a list of
stuff. Talk about it. It'll
be all right. In the
first five minutes, I was
like, Oh my God, this
sucks. And now I think
it's actually going pretty well.
So I need to own
that. I need to own
that. Right. I need to
feel about that and be
like, okay, all right, I'm
still going to freak out
for the next one, but
I'll just freak out less.
Right? I've been speaking and
speaking, I've been on stage
of the musical theater. I've
done standup comedy. I've been
presenting professionally for 25 years.
I'm still nervous. The first
five minutes of every single
one. And the goal is
to get that five minutes
to four minutes and that
four minutes to three minutes,
you know what I mean?
So yes. I feel like
an imposter. Yes. I feel
like I've been coasting on
charm for 30 years. Yes.
There are a thousand little
things where someone can make
me question who I am
and if I'm good, but
then I can go back
and look at what I
do and what I have
made and say, man, I
did that. Like, I'm gonna
give myself credit for doing
that. I did that. I
teach, well, I made, I
made products, you know, not,
not everybody can stack overflow
themselves into writing an app,
you know? So give yourself
credit, feel bad, observe it,
then go back and say,
all right, I did do
that. I'm going to give
myself credit for that. Does
that make sense? You'll never
get over it. You'll just
get over it. Okay. All
right. You say, I always
thought there was a, there
was a point where it
ends, well, It doesn't, it
doesn't end. I still like,
I mean, here's the thing,
right? Like this morning I
looked in the mirror and
I was like, surprised I'm
not 25. And I was
just like, Oh shit, I'm
not 25. But then I
was like, okay, well I
guess not. I think this
is, this is things that
are good about being old.
And these are things that
aren't, and I'll probably wake
up tomorrow and I'll be
surprised again, I'm not 25,
but it's that mindfulness that
that's me get out of
that moment for a second.
So like when I give
a talk or I give
a podcast or I talk
to someone, like one of
the things that I know
about myself, one of my
internal biases is I'm intimidated
by people with a PhD.
So whenever I meet somebody,
especially young people and I'm
like, they're like 24 and
they got a PhD in
whatever. And I went to
Portland community college, right? So
like, I have like deep,
I don't know what I'm
talking about because I'm like,
I went to, I literally
have an associates degree in
community college and I'm like,
Oh crap, this person is
22. I have to really
explore that. Like, why do
I feel like an imposter
talking to this child that
I have more experienced than
this person has years. My
shoes are older than this
doctor, but I'm still intimidated.
And the reason is, is
because of the road not
taken, this person did something
I did not do. And
I'm intimidated because they stuck
with it. They stuck with
college. And I didn't, I
look at that. I accept
it. I acknowledge it. And
then I move on. Does
that make sense? Yes, it
does. Doesn't thanks for all
the other answers to all
the other questions. Every single
one of them made a
difference. The answer questions I
had. Alright. Yeah. Mindfulness, deliberate
practice, intentionality accepting that it
don't mill feel bad. Like
the idea that it won't
get better. It's like, like
I have diabetes, I have
type one diabetes and it's
not cancer, but it, but
it ain't awesome. You know
what I mean? Like I'm
going to die from it.
So there are days, which
is like, Oh man, right?
Like this is not, this
is not cool at all.
And then I have to
be like, all right, this
is a bad day. This
is a day where I'm
having a little pity party.
I'm gonna feel bad about
myself. And then it's like,
okay, but here's all the
list of good stuff about
being me. And I'm still
here and it hasn't broken
me yet. So tomorrow is
another day to turn it
all around. Cool. All right.
Thanks. I'll be listening. Cool.
You have only 700 episodes
of my podcast to catch
up on like, alright, thanks.
So actually I'm cuing up
our friend or mutual friend,
Richard Campbell to join the team
here in maybe another week
or two, since he's got
how many years experience producing
podcasts and hosting. Lily actually
has a question here. She's
already un-muted I'll let her
ask her questions. Yeah. Hi.
So my question was more
about, you know, following you
for the last few years,
not literally figuratively, you're always
on the road, you have
all kinds of arrangements. And
my question, my question is
how do you keep in
touch with not only your
community, but also the care
people in your life? Because
you know, your, your family,
your, your spouse, your kids,
extended family, friends, coworkers, they
all have requirements of you.
So how do you, how
do you meet those requirements?
How to continue, how are
you able to continually meet
those requirements? When I talk
about mindfulness and intentionality, it's
something that is not like
a, you wake up in
the morning and you look
at the post it note
on the, on the mirror
and you go, this is
a day I'm going to
be really thinking about my
family intentionality. You literally have
to reset yourself five, six,
seven times a day. Like,
like literally right now, I'm
I am. I just realized
I was slouching. So now
I'm straightening my back and
I'm trying to have good
posture. Mindfulness and intentionality is
literally catching yourself and your
bad posture multiple times a
day and then straightening it.
So it's not twice a
year going. I should spend
more time with my kids.
It's twice a day going,
wow. Like my 11 year
old just asked to play
a game with me. That
was a missed opportunity. Can
I run in there now?
Like I remember this 15
minutes after he asked me,
can I run over there
and talk to him today?
Immediately, the fact, you know,
fail fast, fail often. Right?
I'm going to catch that
as much as you can.
So like right now I'm
on vacation. I'm not even
supposed to be talking to.
Y'all like, I'm not even
supposed to come to work
today, but my wife's asleep.
Cause she's going to work
tonight. The kids don't come
back from school for 11
minutes. Therefore I enjoy this.
It feeds my spirit. So
why don't I hang out
with y'all? Does that make
sense? Yeah, that makes a
lot of sense, actually. Yeah.
Yeah. So if, but here's
the other thing, and this
is, this is sounds silly
and it definitely will not
like be in the style
of my typical podcast, but
someone told me that they
wanted to do something like
learn a language or like,
I just can't find the
time. And I said, do
you poop every day? And
they were like, yeah, I'm
usually poop. I was like,
do you find time for
that? Like you, you be
able to fit that into
your busy schedule. And they
were like, yeah. And I
was like, well, I mean,
it must be important. Huh?
They're like, yeah, well you
will find time for important
won't ya? Well, yeah. Well
then is this important or
not? And they were like,
Oh right, like what's important.
You have to go and
ask yourself to that original
thing at the beginning of
this conversation, if it's not
underscore making me money, allow
me to be, to close
my family, getting connected with
my kids, then it, then
you drop it out. Right.
So what are the things
that like, isn't it amazing
how there's people who are
complaining, how they can't finish
that book or write that
blog post, but they seem
to find time to binge
watch on stranger things nine,
right? Like if stranger things,
nine feed your spirit, great
do that. But you don't
get to watch nine hours
of Netflix and complain. You
can't find time to blog
or, you know, you can't
watch an entire six seasons
of the wire and then
say, I don't hang out
with my kids. That's fair.
Yeah. That's how I look
about it. What do you,
what do you think? No,
I, I like that. It's
my husband. I we're both
workaholics. And so we were
blessed both now that we
can be at home. So
we go on walks twice
a day to reconnect and
kind of love it. And
so we're just faucet works.
I'm just, I want to
make sure that it's going
to continue work and it's
just something that's freaking me
out. When I see that
he's gonna change his track
a little bit and I'm
going to change my track.
And so I just kind
of wanted to hear it
from you what you do.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, another great
example that I used was
that my wife has an
MBA and she does all
this. She was a finance
person. She worked at a
nonprofit and then one day,
like on a random Tuesday,
she says, I want to
be a nurse. So then
it's like, okay, fear, uncertainty,
doubt. Ah, do you think
that's a good idea, blah,
blah, blah. And all of
the standard, like, is this,
you know, like all of
the reasons that I could
say no, right, but then
the whole no, no, no.
And it was like, okay,
well, yes. And do you
want to be a nurse?
Okay. Let's figure out what
that's going to look like.
So we sat down and
we planned it and it's
like, okay, here's, what's going
to change. Here's how the
kids won't, you know, we'll
go to school and Scott,
you're going to have to
change your schedule so I
can be studying. And I'm
going to be working nights
now that da, and we
put together a plan. So
for any thing you want
to do, you can't just
slide, blogging and twitching into
your day and hope it
fits. You have to sit
down and look at your
current situation and say, all
right. If everything were to
change, I'm going to become
a nurse. If I'm going
to become a lawyer, if
I'm going to quit my
job and Twitch full time,
what would that look like?
And then you plan it
and then you execute on
the plan and then if
it didn't work, then you
adjust the plan. Yeah, that
sounds great, actually. Thank you.
Thank you. Yes. Thank you
for the question. So in,
in chat, when you were
talking about succeeding and failing,
there was a comment from
talk to me, goose, man,
that's our friend, Eric Huseman
about how being laid off
from his job actually helped
change and, and redirect him
in a better direction. Let
me unmute him so we
can talk about that real
quick. Yeah. It's great hearing,
hearing you talk about these
things, because these are types
of ideas that I've kind
of internalized, but never thought
about as a, as a,
as a whole. And one
thing I've always communicated was
so out of college, I
got a job just doing
Java Java development and for
the longest. And, and I
worked at that company for,
for two, almost three years
and getting laid off was
such a heartbreaking thing at
the time. But after, you
know, going from there and
getting introduced, and then that
kind of led going into
web development from doing just
job application, eclipse plugin development.
And, and, and when I
look back and kind of
reflected on that, I realized
that the, the getting laid
off looking back was actually
a great thing because I
was just cruising. Like I
was, I was kind of
like in this kind of
like dead end job, very
underpaid. And in this, in
this tiny office and it
made me realize that, you
know, like I should look
back and reflect on what,
not just not for me,
not work for just the
sake of working and earning,
earning a living, but working
for my own wellbeing. And
this kind of happened again,
they like are really solidified.
That belief was when I
had gotten laid off at
another again. And after getting
laid off, I realized I
was kind of falling into
that red again of kind
of cruising. And now, you
know what, living two lessons.
And now I, I definitely
follow that kind of philosophy
of, of, you know, if
I being happy at what
I do and trying to
do the best of what
I do. And, and that's,
I feel like the, my,
and that's actually what led
into me doing Twitch in
the first place is being
inspired to create and pursue.
Because if you just cruise
you don't, you do nothing.
And you just kinda sit
there and watch Netflix all
day, Keeping it really 100
when you're in the car
and you are driving and
you're not touching your phone,
of course, like you never
touch your phone in the
car. Right. And then you
touch your damn phone and
you almost hit somebody and
you get that moment where
you're fine and everything's great.
And then it's like, Oh,
you know, we've all had
that experience in a car,
right. Where it's like, Holy
crap. I almost died. I
almost killed everyone. I am
never touching my phone again.
That's where life has like
smacked you in the head
and you have decided to
take it and make a
change or not. The fact
is though, you will then
fall back into your existing
thing and you'll touch your
phone again. And then it
will happen again. The trick
is to make the distance
between the having life smack
you in the face, the
farther and farther and farther.
So it's not hitting you
in the face daily, it's
hitting in the face like
yearly or whatever. So for
you getting laid off was
the reality check. As they
say that let's smack you
and like, Oh crap. I
need to like, think about
stuff for me. My wife
got cancer. So we had
our cancer year. I've had
other moments. It's like, Oh
crap, this is a thing.
And I need to change.
Now that I'm getting older
and I'm like, creaking, physically
physical stuff makes you realize,
Oh wow, like I'm starting
to hurt. I need to
start working out more or
I'm I need to eat
better. Or I got my
blood work back from my
doctor yesterday and I need
to change it if you
don't have mindfulness, those, those
little things where like the
universe is checking in with
you and making sure that
you're growing get ignored. And
I feel like people who
aren't growing sometimes get reminded
more who aren't. And it's
really our, our job to
listen to the universe, poking
at us and reminding us
that we need to, we
need to listen. Now. I
think it's horrible that you
were laid off. And I'm
not saying that, you know,
you just, you decide whether
the universe gave it to
you because you needed it.
But you know how they
always say, God doesn't do
anything to us that we
can't handle. You know, it
sounded like it was exactly
what you needed at the
time. And if you weren't,
if you weren't listening though,
it might've happened again and
again. Yeah. I'm totally happy.
I got laid off. So
I'm happy. It's still kind
of sucks though. I mean,
you know, that's, that's where
you make like, plans, right.
And prepare for the unexpected.
Yeah. Not, not everybody is
prepared to get laid off
financially or emotionally, but it
sounds like you were thanks
for all the advice. All
right, Scott, that's a, that's
been an hour already. Really?
Can you believe it? Oh,
okay. Thank you so much
for player just said, Oh
God, I missed it. It
was recorded. It's recorded. And
certainly the thing that you
can do, new friends is
take any, and all of
the I shared in the,
in the links and you
can share them out on
Twitter or your various and
sundry social things. The number
one thing that you can
do to me as a
gift is if I've provided
you some value, then you
can share that widely with
your, your friends and coworkers
that helps me share them
on the street and say,
Hey, look what I learned
from Scott. Share all the
things. Well, that was a
show. I hope that you
enjoyed it. At least you
got some value out of
it. Maybe one little snippet
of wisdom there a little
bit, but here's the ending.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. And we'll
see you again next week.
.